# Feasability Studies

!!! info "What you Need to Know"

	Describe, exemplify, and implement research for:
 
	* feasibility studies:
		* economic
		* time
		* legal
		* technical
	
	* user surveys

### ==Explanation==

The feasibility study must look at the project in sufficient depth to be able to provide information that:

* either shows that the development of the new system is cost-effective,
	
* or shows why the project should not continue.
  

The feasibility study should be conducted relatively cheaply and within a fairly short time frame. 

There are no legal or contractual requirements at this stage.

The findings of the feasibility study are presented to the client in the form of a report.

This report indicates costs, benefits, alternatives and appropriate recommendations.

### ==The Four Aspects of a Feasibility Study==

There are four aspects of feasibility that must be considered in any feasibility study:

=== "Economic Feasability"

    The client will want to know the cost of each option and what they get for their money.

    A system is only economically feasible if the benefits of the development outweigh the costs. For this reason a cost benefit analysis is carried out.

    The cost-benefit analysis will identify:

    * the costs involved in the developmen
    * the benefits that will result from the development
    * the break-even point when the new system stops costing money and starts making money

=== "Legal Feasability"

    This considers the legal issues associated with the development of a new information system. Particular notice must be given to the legislation outlined in:

    GDPR

    * Will the new system contain details of living persons?

    Computer Misuse Act (1990)

    * The potential for hacking and plating viruses must be considered.

    Copyright, Design and Patents Act (1988)

    * The issue of software licensing is important.

=== "Technical Feasability"

    The technical feasibility study must identify the technologies that will be necessary for the proposed system to function correctly. 

    Once identified, the technical feasibility then considers whether or not the technologies necessary are currently available.

    * If the required technologies are available, the technical feasibility must determine whether or not the client already has the necessary resources. If not, the resources that must be acquired are identified and suitable hardware and software recommended.

=== "Time Feasability"

    The time necessary to develop a new information system is considerable. For this reason, the time feasibility must consider not only the time needed to carry out the development but how this will affect the client.

    Time feasibility must take account of:
    
    * overall development time for the project
    * events during the year that the business is already committed to
    * when best to install the new system
    * when is the best time to train users how to use the new system
    * when will the  system be ready for use.

### ==User Survey==

The users of a particular program are the best people to identify the existing problems with the software and how it could be improved.

If the software being developed is new, the target user group should understand the programme. 

> For example, a new library system would be developed following some time spent capturing the experience of existing librarians and how they operate.

When the opinion of a number of users is required, it is often easier to create a survey or questionnaire which will capture the information that the project team require.
