# Project Planning

!!! info "What you Need to Know"

	Describe, exemplify, and implement planning in terms of:
	
	* Scheduling
	* Resources
	* Gantt charts

### ==Explanation==

Project planning involves dividing the project into smaller tasks that are allocated to teams. 

The project leader must use the available resources in the best possible way to get the job completed successfully and on time. 

Project management software will organise the project into smaller tasks and then schedule these tasks. The schedule can be displayed as a Gantt Chart.

As the project progresses and jobs are completed or delayed, the charts can be updated to show the current position.

In this way, the progress of a project can be monitored regularly.

A project plan must show:

* the individual tasks that must be carried out
* the time required for each task
* the sequencing of the tasks to be carried out
* the resources needed for each task
* the costs involved in carrying out each task

### ==Scheduling==

The role of project manager is to use his/her skills to turn the project requirements specification into a work breakdown structure and then to estimate the amount of effort required to complete each task.

These tasks can then be allocated as items of work to be completed by individuals and/or teams. 

A work breakdown structure represents the hierarchy of tasks to be completed and the milestones within the project. 

A milestone is a specific point in the project timeline which has some level of importance. It will be a point at which the project progress is evaluated and reported to the client. 

It can also be a point where the client will be given a deliverable; where the client will receive some of the output from the project work.
 
When the tasks within the milestone are completed then the milestone is achieved.

### ==Resources==

Projects require resources in order to be completed. 

A significant amount of the resource required to complete a project will be the members of the project team. 

There will also be other resources that may be required to complete the project: specialist hardware/software, external consultants/designers, legal and other professionals.

### ==Gantt Charts==

A Gantt chart is a way of showing the work breakdown schedule against a timeline.

The timeline is used to show:

* when the activity to complete tasks begins and ends,
* how long each activity is scheduled to last,
* where activities overlap with each other and
* the start and end dates for the whole project.

> Gantt charts can also be used to show the dependencies between tasks on the timeline.


