# Requirement Specification

### ==Explanation==

All the information acquired up to this point is contained within the Requirement Specification which is produced for the client.

The requirements specification contains:

* Functional Requirements
* End-User Requirements
* Scope, Boundaries & Constraints

Producing the requirement spec is an iterative process between the client and the consultants as both sides must agree on what is to be produced.

It is a legal binding document and protects both parties:

* The client knows what they are paying for and the consultants must deliver this.
* The consultants know what they have to develop and stops the client from changing their minds

The requirements specification is used for validation throughout the process.

* The consultants use it to make sure that what they are producing is correct.
* The client use it at beta testing to ensure that what they have is what they asked for.

### ==Requirement Specification Breakdown==

=== "Functional Requirements"

    The functional requirements (inputs, processes and outputs) should be written in such a way that the end-user can understand them clearly and unambiguously, but also so that the programmers know what they have to produce.

=== "Scope"

    The scope is a list of the deliverables that the project will and over to the client and/or end-user.

    E.g. design, completed program, test plan, test results and evaluation report.

    This hasn’t changed from higher

=== "Boundaries"

    The boundaries are the limits that help to define what is in the project and what is not.  It can also clarify any assumptions made by the software developers regarding the clients requirements.

    This hasn’t changed from higher.


=== "Constraints"

    Technical constraints

    * knowledge and/or availability of development tools and programming language
    * the operating system or platforms that will be used to deliver the working solution
    * hardware considerations such as capacity
    * non-functional requirements such as performance considerations

    Business constraints:

    * schedule and timescales that must be met
    * available budget
    * composition and makeup of the development team
    * software licensing restrictions or requirements

    Further constraints:

    * economic considerations
    * political issues

### ==Worked Example==

The purpose of a program is to allow the end user to search for an item on an unsorted list of data. 

If a match is found, the program will display the row of data (item id, price and number in stock) for the item.

=== "Functional Requirements"

    **Inputs**
    
    * itemID
    * price
    * quantity in stock
    
    **Processes**
    
    * read in data from an external file to a 2D array
    * sort the data in order of itemID from low to high
    * search the 2D array for the required itemID, based on the end-user input

    **Output**
    
    * if a match is found, the data (itemID, price, and number in stock) will correspond to the end-user input
    * if no match is found, a suitable message will inform the end user

    {== There is the assumption that the data is being input from an external file, this is why it the price and quantity are part of input.==}
    
    {==There is slso an assumption that a binary search is being used which is why the data is sorted first.==}

=== "Scope"

    This development involves creating a modular program. The deliverables include:

    * a detailed design of the program structure
    * a test plan with a completed test data table
    * a working program
    * the results of testing
    * an evaluation report

=== "Boundaries"

    The boundaries of the program are:
    
    * the program will read the data (itemID, price, and number in stock) from a sequential file
    * the data is accurate, there is no need to implement input validation

=== "End User Requirements"

    End users will expect:
    
    * to enter an itemID while the program is running
    * the data corresponding to the itemID to be displayed
    * a user interface that is clearly labelled and easy to use for all user types

=== "Constraints"

    The constraints that apply to this development are:
    
    * Python or Visual Basic must be used to develop the program.
    * The working program will run on the Windows operating system.
    * The work must be completed within 8 hours.
