# 2.1 - Economic Feasability

This deals with the cost implications involved. Management will want to know how much each option will cost, what is affordable within the company’s budget and what they get for their money. 

A cost-benefit-analysis is part of the budgetary feasibility study. 
    
If the project is not cost-effective then there is no point proceeding. Setting up a new computer system is an investment and involves capital outlay. 
    
The costs of a new system include:
    
* the costs of acquiring it in the first place (consultancy fees, program development including cost of any resources required for development, etc.)
    
* the costs of installing it (disruption of current operations, cost of new equipment, alteration of workplace, etc.)
    
* the costs of maintaining it which also includes training. 
    
In the long term, management will also want to know the ‘break-even point’ when the new system stops costing money and starts to make money. 
    
==This is extremely difficult to quantify.==
    
However, an accurate estimate of a system’s operational life span is a valid option and will rely solely on the knowledge and experience of the systems analyst involved.
	
!!! info "Key Points"
	    
    * The client will want to know the cost of each option and what they get for their money.
		
    *  A system is only economically feasible if the benefits of the development outweigh the costs. For this reason a cost benefit analysis is carried out.
	
Tangible benefits that management would certainly be looking for in the new system would be:

* reduced running costs
* increased operational speed
* increased throughput of work
* better reporting facilities

Note that not all the costs and benefits lend themselves to direct measurement. 

These are called intangible benefits e.g. new systems generally affect the morale of the staff involved, for good or ill. 