
# Analysis

## End User Requirements

End user requirements are what the end users want to use the database for.

From this 2019 question, you could say that the end user requirements include:

* Club leaders need to be able to add new activities

* Club leaders need to know who which adults have a first aid qualification

* Club leaders need to be able to find activities members are registered for

* Club leaders need to be able to see all members listed alphabetically

Always write your answer like this:

> The club leader needs …

Or

> The shop staff need …

Or

> The school headteacher needs…


!!! tip "Top Tip"

    Keep the focus on the end user - what do they want to use the database for?

## Functional requirements

The `Functional Requirements` are what the database needs to be able to do. 

These can be:

* What entities and attributes are needed (what tables and fields)

* What queries are needed to search/sort the data

In the youth club example, functional requirements could include:

* Needs a table to store details about leaders, including whether they have a first aid qualification

* Needs a tables for members and activities

* Needs a query to show members, sorted alphabetically by town
 
For functional requirements, always write your answer like:

> The database needs a table about …

Or

> The database needs a query to ...

This will help you to structure your answer, and makes it less likely you’ll confuse end-user and functional requirements.

## The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a law that covers how your data is stored and used.

In some older notes, you may see it referred to as the Data Protection Act - this name changed in 2018, and you should use GDPR instead.

You need to know about the implications of GDPR - for individuals and businesses/organisations.

The data subject is the person whose data is being stored - for example, in the school register database, pupils are the data subjects, as the data is about them. The person in control of the data is called the data controller.

There is a declared purpose - what the data is being used for. 

For example, in a school, the declared purpose might be that we store the register data to check attendance. 

That is the declared purpose of our database.

You need to know six implications (consequences) of GDPR:

* Data must be processed lawfully, fairly and transparently (this means being open about it)

* Data must be used for the declared purpose only

* Only the data needed for the declared purpose should be collected.

* Data must be accurate
